Source code distributed under the Eclipse Public License - v 1.0:

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE
PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF
THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and
documentation distributed under this Agreement, and

b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

i) changes to the Program, and

ii) additions to the Program;

where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and
are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution
'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such
Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's
behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which:
(i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with
the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not
derivative works of the Program.

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor
which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution
alone or when combined with the Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this
Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this
Agreement, including all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright
license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display,
publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such
Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and
object code form.

b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell,
import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if
any, in source code and object code form.  This patent license shall
apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at
the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition
of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the
Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other
combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is
licensed hereunder.

c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the
licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are
provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the
patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each
Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by
any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights
or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses
granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility
to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For
example, if a third party patent license is required to allow
Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility
to acquire that license before distributing the Program.

d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient
copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright
license set forth in this Agreement.

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form
under its own license agreement, provided that:

a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

b) its license agreement:

i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties
and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or
conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or
conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;

ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability
for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and
consequential damages, such as lost profits;

iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are
offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such
Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable
manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

When the Program is made available in source code form:

a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and

b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained
within the Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its
Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent
Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain
responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the
like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use
of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a
commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not
create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a
Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering,
such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend
and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor")
against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising
from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party
against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts
or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its
distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering.  The
obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property
infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a)
promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim,
and b) allow the Commercial Contributor tocontrol, and cooperate with
the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement
negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such
claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial
product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial
Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance
claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance
claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to
defend claims against the other Contributors related to those
performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other
Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor
must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY
OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and
distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its
exercise of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to
the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable
laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and
unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR
ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR
DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED
HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further
action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the
minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that
the Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other
software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such
Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of
the date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it
fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this
Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of
time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's
rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use
and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably
practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and
any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall
continue and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement,
but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and
may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward
reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of
this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement
Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation
is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign
the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable
separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a
distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions)
may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement
under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the
Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the
Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as
expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives
no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor
under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or
otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this
Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and
the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No
party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement
more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives
its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.



Images distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution + ShareAlike
License version 3.0:

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS
CREATIVE COMMONS PUBLIC LICENSE ("CCPL" OR "LICENSE"). THE WORK IS
PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE
WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS
PROHIBITED.

BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. TO THE EXTENT THIS
LICENSE MAY BE CONSIDERED TO BE A CONTRACT, THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU
THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH
TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

1. Definitions

    "Adaptation" means a work based upon the Work, or upon the Work
    and other pre-existing works, such as a translation, adaptation,
    derivative work, arrangement of music or other alterations of a
    literary or artistic work, or phonogram or performance and
    includes cinematographic adaptations or any other form in which
    the Work may be recast, transformed, or adapted including in any
    form recognizably derived from the original, except that a work
    that constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation
    for the purpose of this License. For the avoidance of doubt, where
    the Work is a musical work, performance or phonogram, the
    synchronization of the Work in timed-relation with a moving image
    ("synching") will be considered an Adaptation for the purpose of
    this License.

    "Collection" means a collection of literary or artistic works,
    such as encyclopedias and anthologies, or performances, phonograms
    or broadcasts, or other works or subject matter other than works
    listed in Section 1(f) below, which, by reason of the selection
    and arrangement of their contents, constitute intellectual
    creations, in which the Work is included in its entirety in
    unmodified form along with one or more other contributions, each
    constituting separate and independent works in themselves, which
    together are assembled into a collective whole. A work that
    constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation (as
    defined below) for the purposes of this License.

    "Creative Commons Compatible License" means a license that is
    listed at http://creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses that has
    been approved by Creative Commons as being essentially equivalent
    to this License, including, at a minimum, because that license:
    (i) contains terms that have the same purpose, meaning and effect
    as the License Elements of this License; and, (ii) explicitly
    permits the relicensing of adaptations of works made available
    under that license under this License or a Creative Commons
    jurisdiction license with the same License Elements as this
    License.

    "Distribute" means to make available to the public the original
    and copies of the Work or Adaptation, as appropriate, through sale
    or other transfer of ownership.

    "License Elements" means the following high-level license
    attributes as selected by Licensor and indicated in the title of
    this License: Attribution, ShareAlike.

    "Licensor" means the individual, individuals, entity or entities
    that offer(s) the Work under the terms of this License.

    "Original Author" means, in the case of a literary or artistic
    work, the individual, individuals, entity or entities who created
    the Work or if no individual or entity can be identified, the
    publisher; and in addition (i) in the case of a performance the
    actors, singers, musicians, dancers, and other persons who act,
    sing, deliver, declaim, play in, interpret or otherwise perform
    literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore; (ii) in the
    case of a phonogram the producer being the person or legal entity
    who first fixes the sounds of a performance or other sounds; and,
    (iii) in the case of broadcasts, the organization that transmits
    the broadcast.

    "Work" means the literary and/or artistic work offered under the
    terms of this License including without limitation any production
    in the literary, scientific and artistic domain, whatever may be
    the mode or form of its expression including digital form, such as
    a book, pamphlet and other writing; a lecture, address, sermon or
    other work of the same nature; a dramatic or dramatico-musical
    work; a choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show; a
    musical composition with or without words; a cinematographic work
    to which are assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to
    cinematography; a work of drawing, painting, architecture,
    sculpture, engraving or lithography; a photographic work to which
    are assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to
    photography; a work of applied art; an illustration, map, plan,
    sketch or three-dimensional work relative to geography,
    topography, architecture or science; a performance; a broadcast; a
    phonogram; a compilation of data to the extent it is protected as
    a copyrightable work; or a work performed by a variety or circus
    performer to the extent it is not otherwise considered a literary
    or artistic work.

    "You" means an individual or entity exercising rights under this
    License who has not previously violated the terms of this License
    with respect to the Work, or who has received express permission
    from the Licensor to exercise rights under this License despite a
    previous violation.

    "Publicly Perform" means to perform public recitations of the Work
    and to communicate to the public those public recitations, by any
    means or process, including by wire or wireless means or public
    digital performances; to make available to the public Works in
    such a way that members of the public may access these Works from
    a place and at a place individually chosen by them; to perform the
    Work to the public by any means or process and the communication
    to the public of the performances of the Work, including by public
    digital performance; to broadcast and rebroadcast the Work by any
    means including signs, sounds or images.

    "Reproduce" means to make copies of the Work by any means
    including without limitation by sound or visual recordings and the
    right of fixation and reproducing fixations of the Work, including
    storage of a protected performance or phonogram in digital form or
    other electronic medium.

2. Fair Dealing Rights. Nothing in this License is intended to reduce,
limit, or restrict any uses free from copyright or rights arising from
limitations or exceptions that are provided for in connection with the
copyright protection under copyright law or other applicable laws.

3. License Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive,
perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright) license to
exercise the rights in the Work as stated below:

    to Reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more
    Collections, and to Reproduce the Work as incorporated in the
    Collections;

    to create and Reproduce Adaptations provided that any such
    Adaptation, including any translation in any medium, takes
    reasonable steps to clearly label, demarcate or otherwise identify
    that changes were made to the original Work. For example, a
    translation could be marked "The original work was translated from
    English to Spanish," or a modification could indicate "The
    original work has been modified.";

    to Distribute and Publicly Perform the Work including as
    incorporated in Collections; and,

    to Distribute and Publicly Perform Adaptations.

    For the avoidance of doubt:

        Non-waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those
        jurisdictions in which the right to collect royalties through
        any statutory or compulsory licensing scheme cannot be waived,
        the Licensor reserves the exclusive right to collect such
        royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under
        this License;

        Waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in
        which the right to collect royalties through any statutory or
        compulsory licensing scheme can be waived, the Licensor waives
        the exclusive right to collect such royalties for any exercise
        by You of the rights granted under this License; and,

        Voluntary License Schemes. The Licensor waives the right to
        collect royalties, whether individually or, in the event that
        the Licensor is a member of a collecting society that
        administers voluntary licensing schemes, via that society,
        from any exercise by You of the rights granted under this
        License.

The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now
known or hereafter devised. The above rights include the right to make
such modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights
in other media and formats. Subject to Section 8(f), all rights not
expressly granted by Licensor are hereby reserved.

4. Restrictions. The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly
made subject to and limited by the following restrictions:

    You may Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work only under the
    terms of this License. You must include a copy of, or the Uniform
    Resource Identifier (URI) for, this License with every copy of the
    Work You Distribute or Publicly Perform. You may not offer or
    impose any terms on the Work that restrict the terms of this
    License or the ability of the recipient of the Work to exercise
    the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the
    License. You may not sublicense the Work. You must keep intact all
    notices that refer to this License and to the disclaimer of
    warranties with every copy of the Work You Distribute or Publicly
    Perform. When You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work, You may
    not impose any effective technological measures on the Work that
    restrict the ability of a recipient of the Work from You to
    exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of
    the License. This Section 4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated
    in a Collection, but this does not require the Collection apart
    from the Work itself to be made subject to the terms of this
    License. If You create a Collection, upon notice from any Licensor
    You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Collection
    any credit as required by Section 4(c), as requested. If You
    create an Adaptation, upon notice from any Licensor You must, to
    the extent practicable, remove from the Adaptation any credit as
    required by Section 4(c), as requested.

    You may Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation only under
    the terms of: (i) this License; (ii) a later version of this
    License with the same License Elements as this License; (iii) a
    Creative Commons jurisdiction license (either this or a later
    license version) that contains the same License Elements as this
    License (e.g., Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 US)); (iv) a Creative
    Commons Compatible License. If you license the Adaptation under
    one of the licenses mentioned in (iv), you must comply with the
    terms of that license. If you license the Adaptation under the
    terms of any of the licenses mentioned in (i), (ii) or (iii) (the
    "Applicable License"), you must comply with the terms of the
    Applicable License generally and the following provisions: (I) You
    must include a copy of, or the URI for, the Applicable License
    with every copy of each Adaptation You Distribute or Publicly
    Perform; (II) You may not offer or impose any terms on the
    Adaptation that restrict the terms of the Applicable License or
    the ability of the recipient of the Adaptation to exercise the
    rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the Applicable
    License; (III) You must keep intact all notices that refer to the
    Applicable License and to the disclaimer of warranties with every
    copy of the Work as included in the Adaptation You Distribute or
    Publicly Perform; (IV) when You Distribute or Publicly Perform the
    Adaptation, You may not impose any effective technological
    measures on the Adaptation that restrict the ability of a
    recipient of the Adaptation from You to exercise the rights
    granted to that recipient under the terms of the Applicable
    License. This Section 4(b) applies to the Adaptation as
    incorporated in a Collection, but this does not require the
    Collection apart from the Adaptation itself to be made subject to
    the terms of the Applicable License.

    If You Distribute, or Publicly Perform the Work or any Adaptations
    or Collections, You must, unless a request has been made pursuant
    to Section 4(a), keep intact all copyright notices for the Work
    and provide, reasonable to the medium or means You are utilizing:
    (i) the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if applicable)
    if supplied, and/or if the Original Author and/or Licensor
    designate another party or parties (e.g., a sponsor institute,
    publishing entity, journal) for attribution ("Attribution
    Parties") in Licensor's copyright notice, terms of service or by
    other reasonable means, the name of such party or parties; (ii)
    the title of the Work if supplied; (iii) to the extent reasonably
    practicable, the URI, if any, that Licensor specifies to be
    associated with the Work, unless such URI does not refer to the
    copyright notice or licensing information for the Work; and (iv) ,
    consistent with Ssection 3(b), in the case of an Adaptation, a
    credit identifying the use of the Work in the Adaptation (e.g.,
    "French translation of the Work by Original Author," or
    "Screenplay based on original Work by Original Author"). The
    credit required by this Section 4(c) may be implemented in any
    reasonable manner; provided, however, that in the case of a
    Adaptation or Collection, at a minimum such credit will appear, if
    a credit for all contributing authors of the Adaptation or
    Collection appears, then as part of these credits and in a manner
    at least as prominent as the credits for the other contributing
    authors. For the avoidance of doubt, You may only use the credit
    required by this Section for the purpose of attribution in the
    manner set out above and, by exercising Your rights under this
    License, You may not implicitly or explicitly assert or imply any
    connection with, sponsorship or endorsement by the Original
    Author, Licensor and/or Attribution Parties, as appropriate, of
    You or Your use of the Work, without the separate, express prior
    written permission of the Original Author, Licensor and/or
    Attribution Parties.

    Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Licensor or as may be
    otherwise permitted by applicable law, if You Reproduce,
    Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work either by itself or as
    part of any Adaptations or Collections, You must not distort,
    mutilate, modify or take other derogatory action in relation to
    the Work which would be prejudicial to the Original Author's honor
    or reputation. Licensor agrees that in those jurisdictions
    (e.g. Japan), in which any exercise of the right granted in
    Section 3(b) of this License (the right to make Adaptations) would
    be deemed to be a distortion, mutilation, modification or other
    derogatory action prejudicial to the Original Author's honor and
    reputation, the Licensor will waive or not assert, as appropriate,
    this Section, to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable
    national law, to enable You to reasonably exercise Your right
    under Section 3(b) of this License (right to make Adaptations) but
    not otherwise.

5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING,
LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED,
STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF
TITLE, MERCHANTIBILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY,
OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT
DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. Limitation on Liability. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY
APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY
LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK,
EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. Termination

    This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
    automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this
    License. Individuals or entities who have received Adaptations or
    Collections from You under this License, however, will not have
    their licenses terminated provided such individuals or entities
    remain in full compliance with those licenses. Sections 1, 2, 5,
    6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.

    Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted
    here is perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright in
    the Work). Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves the right
    to release the Work under different license terms or to stop
    distributing the Work at any time; provided, however that any such
    election will not serve to withdraw this License (or any other
    license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the
    terms of this License), and this License will continue in full
    force and effect unless terminated as stated above.

8. Miscellaneous

    Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work or a
    Collection, the Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the
    Work on the same terms and conditions as the license granted to
    You under this License.

    Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation,
    Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the original Work on
    the same terms and conditions as the license granted to You under
    this License.

    If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under
    applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability
    of the remainder of the terms of this License, and without further
    action by the parties to this agreement, such provision shall be
    reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision
    valid and enforceable.

    No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no
    breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be in
    writing and signed by the party to be charged with such waiver or
    consent.

    This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
    with respect to the Work licensed here. There are no
    understandings, agreements or representations with respect to the
    Work not specified here. Licensor shall not be bound by any
    additional provisions that may appear in any communication from
    You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written
    agreement of the Licensor and You.

    The rights granted under, and the subject matter referenced, in
    this License were drafted utilizing the terminology of the Berne
    Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (as
    amended on September 28, 1979), the Rome Convention of 1961, the
    WIPO Copyright Treaty of 1996, the WIPO Performances and
    Phonograms Treaty of 1996 and the Universal Copyright Convention
    (as revised on July 24, 1971). These rights and subject matter
    take effect in the relevant jurisdiction in which the License
    terms are sought to be enforced according to the corresponding
    provisions of the implementation of those treaty provisions in the
    applicable national law. If the standard suite of rights granted
    under applicable copyright law includes additional rights not
    granted under this License, such additional rights are deemed to
    be included in the License; this License is not intended to
    restrict the license of any rights under applicable law.
