doc/TEMPLATES.md, before:

# Writing Templates

Suppose you've written a fabulously popular library, used the world
over by adoring fans. For the purposes of this document, let's say
this library is called "liquid-cool". If using liquid-cool takes a bit
of setup, or if you'd just like to give your users a little guidance
on how one might best create a new project which uses liquid-cool, you
might want to provide a template for it (just like how `lein` already
provides built-in templates for "app", "plugin", and so on).

Let's assume your library's project dir is `~/dev/liquid-cool`. Create
a template for it like so:

    cd ~/dev
    lein new template liquid-cool --to-dir liquid-cool-template

Your new template would look like:

    liquid-cool-template
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── project.clj
    ├── README.md
    └── src
        └── leiningen
            └── new
                ├── liquid_cool
                │   └── foo.clj
                └── liquid_cool.clj

Note that you'll now have a new and separate project named
"liquid-cool-template". It will have a group-id of "liquid-cool", and
an artifact-id of "lein-template".

> All lein templates have an artifact-id of "lein-template", and are
> differentiated by their group-id, which always should match the
> project for which they provide a template.

## Structure

The files that your template will provide to users are in
`src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool`. lein-newnew starts you off with just
one, named "foo.clj". You can see it referenced in
`src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool.clj`, right underneath the
`->files data` line.

You can delete `foo.clj` if you like (and its corresponding line in
`liquid_cool.clj`), and start populating that
`src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool` directory with the files you wish to be
part of your template. For everything you add, make sure the
`liquid_cool.clj` file receives corresponding entries in that `->files`
call. For examples to follow, have a look inside [the \*.clj files for
the built-in
templates](https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/tree/stable/resources/leiningen/new).

While developing a template, if you're in the template project
lein-newnew will pick it up and you'll be able to test it. However, if
you want to use it on your system without putting it on clojars, just
`lein install` your template.

## Templating System

lein-newnew uses [stencil][] for templating, which implements the
language-agnostic templating system [Mustache][]. All the available tag types
can be found in the [Mustache manual][mustache-manual]; we will only go through
the most common tag type here.

Suppose we want to add in a standard markdown readme file where the input name
is the main header of the file. To be able to do so, we must do two things:
Ensure that the input name is contained within the `data` mapped to the key X,
and that we have a template file which looks up the key X by wrapping it in
double mustaches like so: `{{X}}`. As for our input name, `data` already
contains the line `:name name`, which means we can lookup the input name by
writing `{{name}}` in the template file. To try it out, save the following
contents in the file `src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool/README.md`:

```markdown
# {{name}}

This is our readme!
```

And add the following line right underneath the `->files data` line:

```clj
["README.md" (render "README.md" data)]
```

Now, if we for instance say `lein new liquid-cool liquid-cool-app`, the newly
generated project will contain a file named `README.md` where the header is
`liquid-cool-app`.

[stencil]: https://github.com/davidsantiago/stencil
[Mustache]: http://mustache.github.io/
[mustache-manual]: http://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html

## Distributing your Template

Templates are just maven artifacts. Particularly, they need only be on
the classpath when `lein new` is called. So, as a side-effect, you
can just put your templates in a jar and toss them on clojars and have
people install them like normal Leiningen plugins.

In Leiningen 2.x, templates get dynamically fetched if they're not
found. So for instance `lein new heroku myproject` will find the
latest version of the `heroku/lein-template` project from Clojars and
use that.

Users of Leiningen 1.x (1.6.2 or later) can also use the template if
they install the `lein-newnew` plugin:

    $ lein plugin install lein-newnew 0.3.6
    $ lein new foo
    $ lein new plugin lein-foo

Commit message:

Added section to template documentation explaining mustache delimiters.

doc/TEMPLATES.md, after:

# Writing Templates

Suppose you've written a fabulously popular library, used the world
over by adoring fans. For the purposes of this document, let's say
this library is called "liquid-cool". If using liquid-cool takes a bit
of setup, or if you'd just like to give your users a little guidance
on how one might best create a new project which uses liquid-cool, you
might want to provide a template for it (just like how `lein` already
provides built-in templates for "app", "plugin", and so on).

Let's assume your library's project dir is `~/dev/liquid-cool`. Create
a template for it like so:

    cd ~/dev
    lein new template liquid-cool --to-dir liquid-cool-template

Your new template would look like:

    liquid-cool-template
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── project.clj
    ├── README.md
    └── src
        └── leiningen
            └── new
                ├── liquid_cool
                │   └── foo.clj
                └── liquid_cool.clj

Note that you'll now have a new and separate project named
"liquid-cool-template". It will have a group-id of "liquid-cool", and
an artifact-id of "lein-template".

> All lein templates have an artifact-id of "lein-template", and are
> differentiated by their group-id, which always should match the
> project for which they provide a template.

## Structure

The files that your template will provide to users are in
`src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool`. lein-newnew starts you off with just
one, named "foo.clj". You can see it referenced in
`src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool.clj`, right underneath the
`->files data` line.

You can delete `foo.clj` if you like (and its corresponding line in
`liquid_cool.clj`), and start populating that
`src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool` directory with the files you wish to be
part of your template. For everything you add, make sure the
`liquid_cool.clj` file receives corresponding entries in that `->files`
call. For examples to follow, have a look inside [the \*.clj files for
the built-in
templates](https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/tree/stable/resources/leiningen/new).

While developing a template, if you're in the template project
lein-newnew will pick it up and you'll be able to test it. However, if
you want to use it on your system without putting it on clojars, just
`lein install` your template.

## Templating System

lein-newnew uses [stencil][] for templating, which implements the
language-agnostic templating system [Mustache][]. All the available tag types
can be found in the [Mustache manual][mustache-manual]; we will only go through
the most common tag type here.

Suppose we want to add in a standard markdown readme file where the input name
is the main header of the file. To be able to do so, we must do two things:
Ensure that the input name is contained within the `data` mapped to the key X,
and that we have a template file which looks up the key X by wrapping it in
double mustaches like so: `{{X}}`. As for our input name, `data` already
contains the line `:name name`, which means we can lookup the input name by
writing `{{name}}` in the template file. To try it out, save the following
contents in the file `src/leiningen/new/liquid_cool/README.md`:

```markdown
# {{name}}

This is our readme!
```

And add the following line right underneath the `->files data` line:

```clj
["README.md" (render "README.md" data)]
```

Now, if we for instance say `lein new liquid-cool liquid-cool-app`, the newly
generated project will contain a file named `README.md` where the header is
`liquid-cool-app`.

[stencil]: https://github.com/davidsantiago/stencil
[Mustache]: http://mustache.github.io/
[mustache-manual]: http://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html

#### A warning about Mustache tag delimiters
Clojure syntax can conflict with the default mustache tag delimiter. For 
example, when destructuring a nested map:

```clj
(let [{{:keys [a b]} :ab} some-map]
  (do-something a b))
```

Stencil will interpret the `{{` as the start of a mustache tag, but since the
contents are not valid mustache, the render fails. To get around this, we can 
change the mustache delimiter temporarily, like so:

```clj
{{! Change mustache delimiter to <% and %> }}
{{=<% %>=}}

(let [{{:keys [a b]} :ab} some-map]
  (do-something a b))

<%! Reset mustache delimiter %>
<%={{ }}=%>
```

## Distributing your Template

Templates are just maven artifacts. Particularly, they need only be on
the classpath when `lein new` is called. So, as a side-effect, you
can just put your templates in a jar and toss them on clojars and have
people install them like normal Leiningen plugins.

In Leiningen 2.x, templates get dynamically fetched if they're not
found. So for instance `lein new heroku myproject` will find the
latest version of the `heroku/lein-template` project from Clojars and
use that.

Users of Leiningen 1.x (1.6.2 or later) can also use the template if
they install the `lein-newnew` plugin:

    $ lein plugin install lein-newnew 0.3.6
    $ lein new foo
    $ lein new plugin lein-foo
